roles/bastion/README.md, before:

# Bastion

Configure SSH server to accept tunneling.

- Configure SSH to allow tunneling
- Configure UFW to allow tunneling to specified hosts

## Varialbes

- `bastion_to_port` port that are allowed to be tunneling, default: `22`
- `bastion_to_ip` a list of IP or IP ranges thtat will be allowed to be tunneling, default: `local_net`
- `bastion_jump_users` a list of usernames that should be able to proxyjump
- `bastion_jump_group_gid` name of the group to allow users to proxyjump
- `bastion_jump_group_name` name of the group to allow users to proxyjump, default: sshjump

## How to

1. Create a user for the bastion with an `authorized_keys` and `generate_ssh_key` set to true

```yaml
  - name: bob
    generate_ssh_key: true
    authorized_keys: ssh-ed25519 user_key...
```

2. Create users on the bastion with the users role
3. Download the bastion user's pub key with the bastion role
4. Create a user for internal servers with an `authorized_keys` containing both the user's pub key and the bastion pub key, example:

```yaml
  - name: bob
    authorized_keys: |
      {{ lookup('file', 'credentials/bastion/ssh_pub_keys/bob') }}
      ssh-ed25519 user_key...
```

5. Set other users authorized_keys with the users role
6. Autorize users to connect to SSH by adding them to the `sshd_users` group and running the sshd role

```yaml
sshd_users:
  - bob
```

7. Add the `ssh_from_ip` with has value the local net bastion's IP and run the sshd role to update the firewall
8. Try connecting in SSH to the internal server, example:

```
ssh -J bob@bastion bob@internal
```

## Links

- https://engineering.fb.com/2016/09/12/security/scalable-and-secure-access-with-ssh/
- https://www.syloe.com/rebonds-ssh/
- https://serverfault.com/questions/1012205/how-to-properly-make-an-ssh-bastion-with-fail2ban-in-a-docker-container#1032094
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41553511/can-ansible-deploy-docker-containers-remotely#41553682
- https://www.golinuxcloud.com/ssh-proxy/

## TODO

- Maybe change variables to be a dict containing IP and port so we can specify different ports for each servers
- Start the SSH jump server on a docker container
- Lock users in a chroot of their homes on the bastion server
- Restrict users to only use SSH while connected

Commit message:

add force command to bastion jump users

roles/bastion/README.md, after:

# Bastion

Configure SSH server to accept proxy jump. The bastion SSH interface should be
on another port, example 2222 and should be only accessible from and
administration network on a specific interface. Not to be confused with the
bastion's SSH server which should be on port 22.

- Configure SSH to allow tunneling
- Configure UFW to allow tunneling to specified hosts

## Varialbes

- `bastion_to_port` port that are allowed to be tunneling, default: `22`
- `bastion_to_ip` a list of IP or IP ranges thtat will be allowed to be tunneling, default: `local_net`
- `bastion_jump_users` a list of usernames that should be able to proxyjump
- `bastion_jump_group_gid` name of the group to allow users to proxyjump
- `bastion_jump_group_name` name of the group to allow users to proxyjump, default: sshjump

## How to

1. Create a user for the bastion with an `authorized_keys`, `generate_ssh_key` set to true and `shell` set to `/bin/false`

```yaml
  - name: bob
    generate_ssh_key: true
    authorized_keys: ssh-ed25519 user_key...
    shell: /bin/false
```

2. Create users on the bastion with the users role
3. Download the bastion user's pub key with the bastion role
4. Create a user for internal servers with an `authorized_keys` containing both the user's pub key and the bastion pub key, example:

```yaml
  - name: bob
    authorized_keys: |
      {{ lookup('file', 'credentials/bastion/ssh_pub_keys/bob') }}
      ssh-ed25519 user_key...
```

You can add `command='/bin/false'` at the beginning of each lines to be
absolutely sure that no user will be able to get a shell on the server.

5. Set other users authorized_keys with the users role
6. Autorize users to connect to SSH by adding them to the `sshd_users` group and running the sshd role

```yaml
sshd_users:
  - bob
```

7. Add the `ssh_from_ip` with has value the local net bastion's IP and run the sshd role to update the firewall
8. Try connecting in SSH to the internal server, example:

```
ssh -J bob@bastion bob@internal
```

## Links

- https://engineering.fb.com/2016/09/12/security/scalable-and-secure-access-with-ssh/
- https://www.syloe.com/rebonds-ssh/
- https://serverfault.com/questions/1012205/how-to-properly-make-an-ssh-bastion-with-fail2ban-in-a-docker-container#1032094
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41553511/can-ansible-deploy-docker-containers-remotely#41553682
- https://www.golinuxcloud.com/ssh-proxy/

## TODO

- Maybe change variables to be a dict containing IP and port so we can specify different ports for each servers
- Start the SSH jump server on a docker container
- Lock users in a chroot of their homes on the bastion server
- Restrict users to only use SSH while connected
- Generate unique certificates for each connections to remote servers
- Setup RevokedKeys https://man.openbsd.org/OpenBSD-current/man5/sshd_config.5#RevokedKeys
